Introduction
============

Sudoku Solver is a utility aimed to help *you* solve Sudoku
puzzles. Although it can provide the solution, this would be
missing the point - that being that it allows you to solve
the puzzle with the space to enter possible answers and
correct mistakes without having to use a pencil and rubber
and a larger sheet of paper... It also does not generate
puzzles, it was expected that you'll already have one of
these and you'll use this to help you solve it.

Getting Started
===============

The first step is to enter your puzzle into Sudoku Solver so
that it can distinguish between the original answers
provided by the puzzle author and your answers. It also
means you can start again without needing to re-enter it.

Click the 'New' button, which shows the Sudoku grid where
you enter your numbers. You can either click on a square or
use the cursor keys to navigate from square to square. Then
use the number keys "1..9" to enter the appropriate value.
If you make a mistake you can either press Delete to remove
it or just type the correct value.

You can use the 'Check' button to help you avoid mistakes,
as this ensures the numbers aren't invalid from the start.

Once you have entered the puzzle, click the 'Start' button
to allow you to enter your answers. These will appear in
blue, to distinguish them from the answers provided. Once
again you use the number keys "1..9", however you now also
have the ability to enter more than one number in a square
by using "Ctrl+1..9". This allows you to keep track of
squares which you know only have a couple of possible
answers - as you eliminate them you can use "Ctrl+1..9" to
remove them from the square. Once you know the answer you
can just type it the normal way, or use "Delete" to remove
all the choices you have entered in one go.

If you have made a mistake and want to start the puzzle
again, click "Reset" and this will remove all your answers.
If you want to do another puzzle you can click "New" to
enter another one.

Other Functions
===============

As you get further through the puzzle you can check that
you haven't entered a number incorrectly by using the
"Check" button. This only checks that you have not entered a
number incorrectly in a square that breaks the rules (e.g.
you have two number 6's in the same row), it does not check
that the puzzle has been solved correctly to that point.

If you get stuck you can press the "Hint" button and it will
change the colour of a square to green, where it thinks you
can enter an answer. If you still need a little more help
you can press the "Solve" button which will show you the
possible answers for each square to that point. You should
be aware that it bases its answers on what you have already
done, so if you have made a mistake earlier it will not take
that into account, it only solves the puzzle according to
the state at that moment.

Loading & Saving Puzzles
========================

The ability the load and save puzzles is limited by what a
Java applet can do (see * below). As a workaround I have
provided a dialog into which a puzzle can be written in a
text form so that you can copy-and-paste it into a text
editor (e.g. Notepad) and then save it as a text document.
To reload the puzzle you do the opposite, i.e. open the file
with Notepad and copy the contents into the dialog window
displayed after clicking "Load".

*Java applets do not have the ability to read and write
files locally without being 'signed'. To sign an applet that
can be properly trusted requires me buying a certificate and
also renewing it regularly.

Chris Oldwood
26th March 2007
